now America's top Diplomat Anthony
blinkin is in Israel as part of a
three-day tour of the Middle East in an
effort to boost support for a ceasefire
in Gaza it's the US Secretary of State's
eighth trip to the region since the war
between Israel and Hamas began last
October the visit comes as the United
States asked the UN Security Council to
vote on a draft resolution calling for
an immediate ceasefire between Israel
and Hamas it's also calling for the
release of the hostages still held by
the group earlier Mr blink told
reporters in Cairo that Egypt has been
speaking with Hamas as recently as today
the only party that has not accepted the
only party that's not say yes is Hamas
that's who everyone's waiting on that's
who the Palestinians in Gaza are waiting
on it's who the Israelis are waiting on
it's who the hostages and the hostage
families are waiting on does Hamas want
to end this conflict end uh this war
that it started or not we'll find out
but it's clear that virtually the entire
world has come together in support of
the proposal and the only open question
is will Hamas say yes well Mr blinken's
visit comes as the Director of the UN
world food program says her organization
has paused distribution of humanitarian
Aid into Gaza via a US built Pier citing
safety concerns Cindy McCain said that
following Israel's military operation on
Saturday to rescue full hostages two wfp
warehouses in Gaza were hit by rockets
and a member of staff injured gaza's
Health Ministry says more than 270
Palestinians were killed in the
operation Mr blinken's visit also comes
amid growing turmoil inside Israel with
the resignation of Benny gance one of
the most senior members of the Israeli
War cabinet which was set up after the
Hamas attack last October he had
threatened to stand down unless he felt
there was a post-war plan for Gaza with
a deadline set of yesterday Mr Gant told
reporters he wasn't satisfied this is
the moment he confirmed he was standing
down
unfortunately netan is preventing us
from approaching true Victory which is
the justification for the painful
ongoing price and this is why we quit
the national Unity government today with
a heavy heart yet we feel that it is the
right
decision the Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has called on Mr gance to stay
in the war cabinet he posted this
message on X Israel is in an ex exential
war on multiple fronts at Benny this is
not the time to abandon the campaign
this is the time to join forces we can
speak now to Benham Ben tblu who is a
senior fellow at the foundation for
defense of democracy uh in Washington
hello to you um as I was just saying
it's a very interesting time isn't it in
terms of the political situation uh in
Israel with B gans's departure and I
suppose what does this mean for for
Benjamin Netanyahu and is you know is he
going to be uh even more influenced I
suppose by the
right well it's a pleasure to be with
you right now it's very much an open
question the resignation of of Benny
yens as you know was really foreshadowed
or telegraphed with the warnings he had
issued ever since there was a Unity
government in the aftermath of the
October 7 terror attack uh but in
general uh this did seem to be a matter
of when and not uh if uh based on the
way uh the war at home in Israel uh was
going between different factions that
had constituted that Unity government
the heart of your question right now uh
it is very much uh an open question as
to will BB the current prime minister be
more beholden uh to that hard right an
ultra Orthodox faction uh to make up the
seats uh with the loss of Gans and Eisen
cat or will he try to move to the center
or center right I mean we're just um
hearing from Anthony blinkin there
saying that the only party who's not
said yes to this cisa um deal is Hamas
but we are also hearing from our
correspondent earlier Hugo was saying
that there are members of the of the
cabinet who are saying that they they
would not um be supportive they would
resign if he was to say yes uh to this
ceasefire
deal we'll have to really wait and see
and test that out I don't think the us
would have embarked prematurely on its
eighth trip in the region and now
pushing to move a political
understanding or agreement into the text
of the UN Security Council Revolution if
the agreement did not have some kind of
ta support or ability of Netanyahu to at
least deliver let alone other factions
but you did mention the secretary and
his trip uh and it's worth noting at
least based on what's reported uh that
he will be visiting not just with the
cabinet but also with those ministers
who had resigned or those former
ministers who had resigned yeah that is
interesting isn't it and bny gance was
calling for Netanyahu to set a date for
election is there any chance of
that uh in my view it's still very
unclear very fragile but very fast
moving okay um it's well it's certainly
a very interesting time isn't it in
terms of of what could be achieved I
suppose um in terms of the US and its
ability to put even more pressure on
there is still a long way that it could
go isn't it do you expect to see the US
get any stronger in terms of it putting
pressure
on I think right now it's anyone's guess
I would wait to see how a lot of the
Arab capitals react uh both to the
messaging in the leadup to Blink script
uh you know the the point about Hamas
being the only one to not agree to the
to the ceasefire proposal or the
ceasefire resolution idea uh was echoed
before blinkin W on his script by
National Security adviser Jake Sullivan
as well as many other White House
officials who had actually left uh
Washington for France for uh
commemorations yeah okay well thanks
very much for talking to us B and Ben
tbu a senior fellow at the foundation
for defense of democracy in Washington
thank you for joining us just seeing a a
bit of a readout from the meeting
between blinken and prime minister
Netanyahu saying he reiterated that the
proposal on the table would unlock the
possibility of calm along Israel's
northern border and further integration
within the region